Actions: data prep and exploration

actions	who	by when	file name

1. data prep script including the 0 derivation	Isidora	draft uploaded in teams files because I do not have push access to github. still needs to be turned into a full function that can be sourced as is	initial_data_prep.r
1.1. delete NAs for spatial explanatory variables; double check NAs for lat and long and delete cases where NAs in lat long and c-square
1.2. c squares that never get fished by any metier, change those NAs with something like 'no fishing'
1.3. 0 fishing derived from c-squares where we have env variables, these could have fishing > 0 from other metires or not, and fishing from the selected metier is 0 or NA	 	 
2. response and expl variables exploration script   isidora	 	 
3. mapping scripts of explanatory vars    serra	 	 
4. Mat has some maps for fishing effort.    M. can share that script	 	done already, shared in github	 
5. exploration of spatial and temporal autocorrelation with acf and variograms    isidora	 	 
6. plots of the relationships between response and explanatory    can build upon T's script	 	 	 
 	 	 	 
 
Notes
•	month vs season pros and cons:
o	seasons are a covariate that relate to environment but fleets can change their behavior inside a season this also relates to autocorrelation and how it will be modelled. Tony has used year as a time step.
o	to make train/test subsets: M. said we can follow c-squares randomly selected in time. the alternative is to randomly select observations, which might mix spatial and temporal autocorrelation which might make the estimation harder. 
o	at final stage: to be done at a monthly scale?
•	to make train/test subsets: M. said we can follow c-squares randomly selected in time. the alternative is to randomly select observations, which might mix spatial and temporal autocorrelation which might make the estimation harder.
decisions on data prep:
delete NAs for spatial explanatory variables; double check NAs for lat and long and delete cases where NAs in lat long and c-square
c squares that never get fished by any metier, change those NAs with something like 'no fishing'
0 fishing derived from c-squares where we have env variables, these could have fishing > 0 from other metires or not, and fishing from the selected metier is 0 or NA

Question to ICES data center:
•	why rounded fishing effort values (rounded to hours)
•	why very high fishing effort values (e.g. OT_CRU > 200h)

